README.md, before:

# Karlsen Graph Inspector

Karlsen Graph Inspector (KGI) is comprised of four components:

* A PostgreSQL database
* A `processing` karlsen node (this is simply a karlsend wrapped in some
  extra logic)
* An `api` REST server
* A `web` server

How the components interact:

* The `processing` node connects to the Karlsen network the same way a
  regular karlsend node does and starts syncing just as a karlsend node
  would.
* While it's syncing, it writes metadata about every block to the
  PostgreSQL database.
* From the other end, the `web` server listens to http requests on some
  port.
* When a user navigates their browser to that port, the `web` server
  serves the KGI clientside logic, which includes the UI.
* The clientside logic calls the `api` REST server every so often.
* The `api` REST server queries the PostgreSQL database and returns it to
  the clientside.
* The clientside uses the response it received from the `api` REST
  server to update the UI.

## Deployment

Deploy a PostgreSQL database instance in any way you desire. Note the
address, port, username, password, and database name, since these will
be required later.

### Build KGI Sync

Make sure the go build environment is set up by running `go version`.
Build and install the processing binary:

```
cd processing
go build -o kgi-processing .
cd ..
mkdir -p kgi/sync/database
cp -r processing/database/migrations kgi/sync/database
cp processing/kgi-processing kgi/sync
```

### Build KGI API Server

Make sure the nodejs build environment is set up by running
`npm version`. Build and install API Server:

```
cd api
npm install
cd ..
mkdir -p kgi
cp -r api kgi
```

### Build KGI Web Frontend

Make sure the nodejs build environment is set up by running
`npm version`. The build required to configure the following
environment variables:

* `REACT_APP_API_ADDRESS` which is the the public address of
  your previously build KGI API Server will run.
* `REACT_APP_EXPLORER_ADDRESS` which is the public address of
  you explorer to view details of a specific block.

Build and install web frontend:

```
cd web
npm install
export REACT_APP_API_ADDRESS=api.karlsencoin.com:4455 
export REACT_APP_EXPLORER_ADDRESS=explorer.karlsencoin.com
npm run build
cd ..
mkdir -p kgi
cp -r web kgi
```

## Running

After setting up PostgreSQL and building all components, you can start
running them:

### Run KGI Sync

Running KGI Sync requires to configure the following parameters in the
`--connection-string` to be modified:

* `<psql_user>` which is the username for authentication.
* `<psql_pass>` which is the password for authentication.
* `<psql_host>` which is the PostgreSQL server host to connect to.
* `<psql_port>` which is the PostgreSQL server port to connect to.
* `<psql_db>` which is the database to use.

Navigate to wherever you copied `kgi-processing` binary:

```
cd kgi/sync
./kgi-processing --connection-string=postgres://<psql_user>:<psql_pass>@<psql_host>:<psql_port>/<psql_db>?sslmode=disable
```

### Run KGI API Server

Navigate to wherever you copied `api` folder to:

```
cd kgi/api
export API_PORT=4455
npm run start
```

### Run KGI Web Frontend

Navigate to wherever you copied `web` to:

```
cd kgi/web
npm install serve
npx serve --listen=8080
```

Commit message:

Custom PostgreSQL configuration for API server endpoint:
The current configuration of the KGI API server presumes that the
PostgreSQL database is hosted on the same machine as the API server,
with both the API service and the PostgreSQL database being operated
by the same system user. To enhance flexibility, this update
introduces a set of environment variables:

* POSTGRES_USER: mandatory setting to define the username for database
  connection.
* POSTGRES_PASSWORD: mandatory setting to define the password for
  database connection.
* POSTGRES_DATABASE: mandatory setting to define which database should
  be used.
* POSTGRES_HOST: optional setting to define the host of the database
  server (default: localhost).
* POSTGRES_PORT: optional setting to define the port for database
  connection (default: 5432).

README.md, after:

# Karlsen Graph Inspector

Karlsen Graph Inspector (KGI) is comprised of four components:

* A PostgreSQL database
* A `processing` karlsen node (this is simply a karlsend wrapped in some
  extra logic)
* An `api` REST server
* A `web` server

How the components interact:

* The `processing` node connects to the Karlsen network the same way a
  regular karlsend node does and starts syncing just as a karlsend node
  would.
* While it's syncing, it writes metadata about every block to the
  PostgreSQL database.
* From the other end, the `web` server listens to http requests on some
  port.
* When a user navigates their browser to that port, the `web` server
  serves the KGI clientside logic, which includes the UI.
* The clientside logic calls the `api` REST server every so often.
* The `api` REST server queries the PostgreSQL database and returns it to
  the clientside.
* The clientside uses the response it received from the `api` REST
  server to update the UI.

## Deployment

Deploy a PostgreSQL database instance in any way you desire. Note the
address, port, username, password, and database name, since these will
be required later.

### Build KGI Sync

Make sure the go build environment is set up by running `go version`.
Build and install the processing binary:

```
cd processing
go build -o kgi-processing .
cd ..
mkdir -p kgi/sync/database
cp -r processing/database/migrations kgi/sync/database
cp processing/kgi-processing kgi/sync
```

### Build KGI API Server

Make sure the nodejs build environment is set up by running
`npm version`. Build and install API Server:

```
cd api
npm install
cd ..
mkdir -p kgi
cp -r api kgi
```

### Build KGI Web Frontend

Make sure the nodejs build environment is set up by running
`npm version`. The build required to configure the following
environment variables:

* `REACT_APP_API_ADDRESS` which is the the public address of
  your previously build KGI API Server will run.
* `REACT_APP_EXPLORER_ADDRESS` which is the public address of
  you explorer to view details of a specific block.

Build and install web frontend:

```
cd web
npm install
export REACT_APP_API_ADDRESS=api.karlsencoin.com:4455 
export REACT_APP_EXPLORER_ADDRESS=explorer.karlsencoin.com
npm run build
cd ..
mkdir -p kgi
cp -r web kgi
```

## Running

After setting up PostgreSQL and building all components, you can start
running them:

### Run KGI Sync

Running KGI Sync requires to configure the following parameters in the
`--connection-string` to be modified:

* `<psql_user>` which is the username for authentication.
* `<psql_pass>` which is the password for authentication.
* `<psql_host>` which is the PostgreSQL server host to connect to.
* `<psql_port>` which is the PostgreSQL server port to connect to.
* `<psql_db>` which is the database to use.

Navigate to wherever you copied `kgi-processing` binary:

```
cd kgi/sync
./kgi-processing --connection-string=postgres://<psql_user>:<psql_pass>@<psql_host>:<psql_port>/<psql_db>?sslmode=disable
```

### Run KGI API Server

Running the API Server endpoint require to configure the following
mandatory environment variables:

* `POSTGRES_USER` which is the username for database connection.
* `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` which is the password for database connection.
* `POSTGRES_DATABASE` which is the database to be used.

Optional environment variables are the following:

* `POSTGRES_HOST` which is the host of the database server
  (default: localhost).
* `POSTGRES_PORT` which is the port for database connection
  (default: 5432).

Navigate to wherever you copied `api` folder to:

```
cd kgi/api
export POSTGRES_USER=username
export POSTGRES_PASSWORD=password
export POSTGRES_DATABASE=database
export API_PORT=4455
npm run start
```

### Run KGI Web Frontend

Navigate to wherever you copied `web` to:

```
cd kgi/web
npm install serve
npx serve --listen=8080
```
